[NEW BONUS GUIDE] Tunnel⚡️Sats (paid service) (#1133)
raspibolt/raspibolt: guide/bonus/lightning/tunnelsats.md

---
layout: default
title: Tunnel⚡️Sats
parent: + Lightning
grand_parent: Bonus Section
nav_exclude: true
has_toc: false
---

# Bonus guide: Tunnel⚡️Sats
{: .no_toc }

---

[Tunnel⚡️Sats](https://tunnelsats.com){:target="_blank"} is a paid service to enable hybrid mode on lightning nodes and run clearnet over VPNs all over the world. Tunnel⚡️Sats provides secured and LN-only configured VPNs which support port-forwarding to connect with other lightning nodes. This guide installs the underlying system from scratch. Alternatively an automated setup script can be found at the official [Tunnel⚡️Sats guide](https://blckbx.github.io/tunnelsats/){:target="_blank"}.

> Difficulty: Intermediate
> {: .label .label-yellow }
> 
> Status: Tested v3
> {: .label .label-green }
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Paid service
{: .label .label-yellow }

Difficulty: Intermediate
{: .label .label-yellow }

Status: Tested v3
{: .label .label-green }

```

A suggestion to add a "Paid service" label.

  ```
  
- Save and exit. Reload the daemon, enable and start the services and the timer:

  ```sh
  $ sudo systemctl daemon-reload
  $ sudo systemctl enable tunnelsats-splitting-processes.service
  $ sudo systemctl start tunnelsats-splitting-processes.service
  
  $ sudo systemctl enable tunnelsats-splitting-processes.timer
  $ sudo systemctl start tunnelsats-splitting-processes.timer
  ```

- Set and done. Now we have to ensure the lightning process starts within the cgroup. Beforehand we create a copy of lightning service.

  ```sh
  $ sudo cp /etc/systemd/system/lnd.service /etc/systemd/system/lnd.service.bak
  ```
  
- Edit `ExecStart` in `lnd.service` and add `/usr/bin/cgexec -g net_cls:splitted_processes` to the command:

  ```ini
  ExecStart=/usr/bin/cgexec -g net_cls:splitted_processes /usr/local/bin/lnd
  ```

- Save and exit. Reload the daemon:

  ```sh
  $ sudo systemctl daemon-reload
  ```
  
- Alright. We set the lightning process to start within the cgroup to enable traffic splitting. The following part enables and starts the wireguard service:

  ```sh
  $ sudo systemctl enable wg-quick@tunnelsatsv2
  $ sudo systemctl start wg-quick@tunnelsatsv2
  ```
  

> - If the wireguard connection has successfully been established. We now verify if it's working as intended. Therefore we call our own IP through the tunnel and outside of it:

Reviewer: Missing word at the end of first sentence in that paragraph

> - If the wireguard connection has successfully been established. We now verify if it's working as intended. Therefore we call our own IP through the tunnel and outside of it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the wireguard connection has successfully been established. We now verify if it's working as intended. Therefore we call our own IP through the tunnel and outside of it. First, we return the real clearnet IP:
```

The following comments and 2 commands are a bit confusing imo. A suggestion to rearrange the explanations for them to be above the associated commands... but there might be a cleaner way to do it though. Wdyt?

  ```sh
  $ curl --silent https://api.ipify.org
  ```
  

> - This should return the real clearnet IP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* And now we return the VPN IP:
```

  ```sh
  $ cgexec -g net_cls:splitted_processes curl --silent https://api.ipify.org
  ```
  

> - And this should return the VPN IP. If it does, everything is set up correctly and we can proceed with the configuration of our lightning implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you get the VPN IP, everything is set up correctly and we can proceed with the configuration of our lightning implementation.
```
